Improve documentation (#99)
pytroll/pygac: doc/source/methods.rst

Methods
=======

Calibration
-----------

At present, calibration coefficients provided by Andrew Heidinger
(NOAA) under SCOPE-CM project are applied for all satellites. The current

> version is *PATMOS-x, v2017r1*, including provisional coefficients for MetOp-C.

Reviewer: Should we show where the actual used version is provided in the code?

Author: Yes!

The solar channel calibration (Channels 1 and 2, and Channel 3a if available)
takes into account inter-satellite differences and is derived using
amalgamation of different calibration references including the most recent
MODIS Collection 6 data, in-situ targets, and simultaneous nadir
observations. The detailed methodology is presented in Heidinger et al.
(2010). The resulting (inter)calibration coefficients are of highest quality
and follow the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) standards for
deriving fundamental climate data records.

The reflectances are normalized by a factor (as a function of day of a year)
to account for changing Earth-Sun distance. However, it is left to the
user to apply further normalization using cosine of solar zenith

> angle (depending on application in question).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
angle for example (depending on application in question).
```

could result in the underestimation of brightness temperatures, when
calibration information is smoothed over many scanlines. In Pygac, this
inconsistency is handled properly while calibrating thermal channels.

In some cases it was found that, apart from the reset values, even the
readings from any one of the four PRTs could also have very low suspicious
values. This could also seriously affect the computation of brightness
temperatures. Pygac detects such anomalies and corrects them using
interpolation of nearby valid PRT readings.

Geolocation
-----------

Each GAC row has total 409 pixels. But lat-lon values are provided for every
eigth pixel starting from pixel 5 and ending at pixel 405. Using Numpy, Scipy
and Pyresample packages, inter- and extrapolation is carried out to obtain
geolocation for each pixel along the scanline.

If the GAC data belongs to POD family, then clock drift errors are used to
adjust existing Lat-Lon information. Here, Pygac makes use of `PyOrbital`_
package. Pygac interpolates the clock offset and adjusts the nominal scan
times to the actual scan times. Since the geolocation was computed using the

> nominal scan times, Pygacinterpolates the latitudes and longitudes to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nominal scan times, Pygac interpolates the latitudes and longitudes to the
```

(NOAA) under SCOPE-CM project are applied for all satellites.

Pygac comes with one default calibration file, which can be found in
`pygac/data/calibration.json`_. The current version is *PATMOS-x, v2017r1*,
including provisional coefficients for MetOp-C. A record of all versions is
kept in :class:`pygac.calibration.Calibrator.version_hashs`. Alternatively, it
is possible to pass custom coefficients to the reader, see
:class:`pygac.reader.Reader`. This could also be a previous default version.

.. _pygac/data/calibration.json:
    https://github.com/pytroll/pygac/blob/main/pygac/data/calibration.json

The solar channel calibration (Channels 1 and 2, and Channel 3a if available)
takes into account inter-satellite differences and is derived using
amalgamation of different calibration references including the most recent
MODIS Collection 6 data, in-situ targets, and simultaneous nadir
observations. The detailed methodology is presented in Heidinger et al.
(2010). The resulting (inter)calibration coefficients are of highest quality
and follow the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) standards for
deriving fundamental climate data records.

> The reflectances are normalized by a factor (as a function of day of a year)

Author: Found this one: https://github.com/pytroll/pygac/pull/58#issuecomment-638227821 Looks like a future reminder

to account for changing Earth-Sun distance. However, it is left to the
user to apply further normalization using cosine of solar zenith
angle for example (depending on application in question).

The thermal channel intercalibration is done from scratch, starting from
obtaining Platinum Resistance Thermometer (PRT), space and Internal
Calibration Target (ICT, blackbody) counts. ICT temperatures are obtained
from PRT counts based on coefficients provided in the POD and KLM Data User
Guides (Kidwell, 2000). For each thermal channel, a smoothing window of 51
successive PRT, ICT and space counts is used to obtain robust gain values and
to dampen undue high frequency fluctuations in the count data (Trishchenko,

> 2002). This window size is easily configurable to suit user needs. Section

Author: Agree, nice catch!
